{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \cb2 Project Brief - Transportation: The activity I chose to observe was individuals walking to and from class. I chose this activity because I have heard from graduated seniors that walking to classes is a much more enjoyable and fulfilling experience, and I am interested to learn why, and how I can bring these aspects of the experience to other transportation experiences through a mobile application.\'a0\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa260
\cf0 \cb1 Jason is a first quarter freshman at Stanford. He enjoys walking because he is able to effectively use his time to do other tasks like texting friends, or reading (above). However, he says that sometimes he is worried because he is so engrossed that bikes might hit him. Jason also told me that he enjoys walking because since it is his first quarter, he is able to see parts of Stanford that he has never seen before, and find things that he would have missed otherwise. For example, he saw a Stanford reunion event as we were walking along. However, I observed that these \'a0two enjoyable aspects of walking are mutually exclusive. If Jason was taking in his surroundings, he would not be able to multi-task. Similarly, if he was reading, he wouldn't have his head up and be able to take everything in. So, it would seem that an application should focus on enhancing only one of these aspects. Jason said the one drawback of walking is that he is sometimes late to class because it takes so long. He said he would like an application that would note when he woke up, when he left, and when he arrived at classes, which could learn about how long it took him to get places, so that it could tell him to leave in the future at the appropriate time for him to arrive on time.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \cb2 Kenny is a junior who started walking last year after his bike broke. He says it is one of the best things that has happened to him in his Stanford career. He walks very slowly both to and from class, and frequently stopped to talk to people along the way. He says that he particularly likes this aspect of walking, since he is able to engage more with people when walking because he has more time with them and doesn't have to focus on dodging things like when biking. Kenny said that this expanded focus applies to the rest of his surroundings. He says he notices much more when walking. For example, on our walk, Kenny noticed that the flowers were in bloom (above). Kenny also made efforts along our walk to try out new routes. He took detours through the library and through gardens. He said he likes this because he is going places bikes cannot go, and because he gets to experience things he would otherwise miss. He would like an application that would offer him alternative routes so that he can see new things. On our way back from class, Kenny commented that he was very early to class. He said that the biggest problem with walking is his inability to gauge time to walk places. For known places, he usually knows how long it will take, but when he is going somewhere for the first time, he will often over or underestimate how long it takes to get there. He also mentioned that there really is no good calculator for this, as google maps is pretty bad. He said that the worst example of this was when he was walking to the caltrain station, and google maps told him it would take 10 minutes to walk to the 2 miles there!\'a0
\f1\fs24 \cb1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \cb2 Erik is a senior. I walked with him to and from the human interaction lab in the sociology building. Erik took time to stop for coffee at Coupa and say hi to friends, and made his way through the colonades in green and on the quad, because he likes their asthetic, and it makes him feel like he is experiencing stanford. He says he especially likes walking because it makes him feel like he is not letting Stanford's beauty pass him by. While we walked, Erik checked his texts and email. He said this makes his walks feel very productive. He also talked about the work he was doing in the lab. He said his time walking is good for reflection on his work or lectures, so he can better internalize it. He said his biggest gripe with walking is that he ends up travelling the same path again and again, so the sights become old. He would like an application that would suggest new alternative routes. I think it would also be good, since he is so interested in the stanford experience and the things he sees along the way, for him to be notified of the interesting spots on stanford in his vicinity that he may not know about.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa260
\cf0 \cb1 1. Jason needs a way to focus on what he is doing, and still walk safe from bikers\
2. Jason needs a way to find out about events in his immediate vicinity\
3. Jason needs a way to identify what parts of Stanford's campus he has yet to explore\
4. Jason and Kenny need a way to effectively calculate how long it will take to walk somewhere\
5. Jason needs a way to remind himself to go based on his past walking history\
6. Kenny and Erik need a way to find other walkers to talk to on the way to class\
7. Kenny needs a way to find shortcuts and detours\
8. Kenny and Erik need a way to find interesting things in their vicinity\
9. Kenny and Erik need to find a way to discover new routes to their destinations\
10. Erik needs to find a way to make his walks productive for work\
11. Erik needs to find a way to locate all the quintessential Stanford architecture/experience spots\
12. Jason, Kenny, and Erik need a way to get suggestions/reviews for which routes are the most interesting to take\
13. Erik needs a way to see pictures of the routes he might take to help him choose\
14. Erik needs a way to calculate the total time spent biking vs walking to determine whether the trade off in productivity is worth it\
15. Jason needs an indicator of whether he should walk or bike based on time left before class\
16. Erik needs a way to chronicle/scrapbook the routes he's taken and places he's been\
Google Maps - Google maps has a great application where you can search for locations, see what they look like, and get directions to them. It also offers you alternative routes to get places if you add in waypoints. This could be useful to expand upon for walking, by developing a similar application with more accurate times of how long it takes to get places, that could offer routes on walking trails instead of roads.\
Sonar - This application shows who is around you at local places of interest. This could be more useful for walkers if you had a network of people on it that you knew were walkers, and then could see who was nearby you and your current class to find someone to walk and chat with. It could also be limited to a network of your friends so random people wouldn't creepily know where you were.\
WordPress - Wordpress is a fantastic way to blog about things you have done and places you have been. It would be cool to have a similar application that would chronicle what walks you have taken and share pictures, so that other people could see the routes.\
A Day's outing - This application shows things to do around you based on your location (GPS or zip code). It would be cool to have an application that would show you cool things around Stanford that you didn't already know about, when you are in the vicinity of them and can make a quick detour to check them out. It would also be cool to be able to drop pins when you discover cool Stanford spots like the attic of synergy, to let other Stanford students know there is something cool there to check out.\
\'a0Trip Advisor - This site reviews attractions in cities, and gives tourists options of what cool things they can do on vacation. It also has user reviews of the attractions, to give tourists a better idea of what kind of experience they are getting themselves into. It would be helpful to have reviews of what routes to take, so people could find new routes to try out, and which ones they should avoid.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 Kenny\
\
Enjoys the time walking gives him to notice the small details about things, like that flowers are in bloom\
\
Is sometimes late to class\
Often is early\
Google maps is a bad predictor of how early or late he will be to class - it once told him it would take 10 minutes to walk the 2 miles to the caltrain station.\
He likes the fact that its more social, you can see and really interact with people\
He would like to have alternative routes offered\
He likes getting to see new things\
He likes the things he finds on his detours\
He likes being able to take shortcuts where bikes cannot go\
\
\
\
Jason\
time to read\
Multi-task\
First quarter at Stanford, allows him to see parts of stanford he has never seen before\
He likes seeing things that he would have missed otherwise, like events going on\
He likes seeing events that he wouldn't have known were going on\
He likes the relaxed feeling of it\
Sometimes he feels like bikes could hit him\
\
Erik\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 Wishes he had a smart phone so he could multi-task and use his time better to stay caught up on emails and events.\
Likes going alternative routes\
He would like to find out about things in his immediate vicinity\
He enjoys the quad and the columnades\
Ge wants to really experience stanford, and not just let it rush by\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 Enjoys the time walking gives him to clear his head\
Enjoys the time walking gives him to reflect on class\
Erik would like something that makes him put in when he gets up, when he leaves, when he gets to class, and how late/early he is, and can then suggest to him in the future how long it takes to get there and tell him to leave\
He enjoys the slower pace of walking\
He texts and checks email while he walks\
He gets tired of going the same route and seeing the exact same things every time\
He finds that people will stop and walk with him when he is going somewhere.}